# Generate: Data Branch Tech Challenge

After discovering the most and least trafficked routes I decided to write down a few questions to guide my process of looking for trends and geographical patterns. The questions I calculated growing and declining ports and routes, distinguishing between the two because they provide distinct investment opportunities. I looked at route concentration vs route volume, understanding if countries were efficiently utilizing their routes to Australia. Also looking into efficiency, I noted growth opportunities conditional on its existing market. Finally, I identified several possible secondary hubs to Sydney which present high network ability and high efficiency. From these queries, I identified several investment opportunities and noted possible divestment opportunities.

When it came time to build my model, I am most familiar with traditional econometric modeling, which primarily serves policy analysis. I chose a model that is built specifically for time series predictions, the SARIMA model. Initially I chose the ARIMA model but identified strong seasonal heterogeneity so I opted for the SARIMA model which takes seasonality into account. After validating the assumptions, confirming that the series was non-stationary, I set up the model and validated the prediction. The Ljung-Box test tests how well the model picks up seasonality, which it passed. Additionally, I tested both MAPE and MAE, but focused more on the MAPE figure due to how time series data scales. While most of my knowledge is within econometric modeling, I enjoyed learning about and implementing SARIMA.

# Cleaned Data 
**CSV:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_GvX_erX7K9MdGVXwrPD7TZf1DlDdk70/view?usp=drive_link